>> Lukas Ruebbelke: It's review time.
Angular big picture,
Angular 2 big picture.
So in the context of the big picture,
what is the purpose of NgModule?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Don't be afraid.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So your mouth is half
moving there like you wanna say something.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, so
in this current project,
NgModule is where we tie it all
together in Bootstrap, the app.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So it happens to
the only module in there, but
there could be others.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So there is one
more for the routing, but you're right.
>> Speaker 2: That's true, yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
think of essentially,
NgModule as an organization
mechanism to organize things to tell
Angular how essentially it should be
compiled or how it fits together.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
just when I think of NgModule,
I just think of it is as just a container
where Angular things go into, so
that Angular knows where everything is,
yes?
>> Speaker 3: Comment in from the chat.
Christie is saying organization.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: And Javier group features
that are meaningful to our business.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Perfect,
so that's great.
Essentially it allows you to organize or
group features that
are meaningful to the business.
And so for instance, if you have
something that may need to be peeled off
into a different application or etc.
Well, you can break those into modules or
NgModules as you see fit.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
what do we use routes for?
>> Speaker 2: Routing.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Routing.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
what does that entail, my friend?
>> Speaker 2: Your URL or
different state change.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go,
so state change, keep going.
So when we go to a specific URL, so
think of a URL that's really just
a serialize representation of
the state of the application.
So for instance, if we have a route
that's forward slash items,
we're telling Angular based on this URL,
we want to be in an items state.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Right, so Russ has it.
So mapping state to component.
Interestingly enough, IC routes is being
yet another organizational mechanism.
It allows you to organize your
application into discrete
levels of state that you can then
represent and navigate directly to.
And Angular is responsible for the state.
I'm going to map it to this representation
of components on the screen.
So for instance,
a really simple example that we have
is that when we go to the item state.
We're mapping that state or
that URL to take the item's component and
load it into our router outlet.
But when we go to the widget's URL,
then it's saying take the widget's
state essentially and
take the widget's component and
put it into the router outlet.
So think of it as just really
a dynamic mechanism for
organizing your application
into levels of state.
And so when you start to think of
your application as a machine or
you have these kind of levels of state or
state application can be in.
Routing is just a really
convenient mechanism for
moving between those items or
those levels of state.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay,
what role does components play?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I
think you have an answer.
>> Speaker 4: Another
organization mechanism?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes,
another organization mechanism.
[LAUGH] So that's absolutely right,
let's expand on that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What do you think,
let's ask your colleague here.
>> Speaker 5: I mean it's kind
of the view of your app and
the code that runs when
you interact with the app.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So you say view and
code, you're absolutely right,
it's two parts.
And then together, they come together, so
we'll talk about this a little bit more.
But that forms essentially a building
block for your applications.
So at the end of the day,
it is an organizational mechanism but
it's really the core
atomic building block.
Among really module state and
all the routes and
everything at the bottom
of it is components.
And then what we'll find out is that you
can have a component with components,
components, components.
But even though it's components all
the way down, it's still just components.
So at the core, at the fundamental,
the essence of everything are components.
Any questions?
Make sense?
Pretty simple.
We have an atom, we have a component.
Everything is built on top of that.
So what are services for?
Yes, they're an organizational mechanism.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: Encapsulating
business logic.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes, thank you.
So the idea is that you want your
components to be as thin as possible,
essentially to consume just enough data to
satisfy the view that the component owns.
And just enough logic to
essentially capture user events and
convey it to a service.
The reason being is that if you
have business logic in a component,
that logic is now coupled to that
component and you can no longer reuse it.
So in Angular 1, a really common scenario
is I've got this stuff in my controller.
What happens if another
controller needs to use it?
Well, the answer is you basically
extract it out into a service, so
that two controllers
can consume that data.
Same thing with services in Angular 2 is,
what happens if you have two
components that need to share data?
Well, it goes into the service.
Not only that,
it's when you have business logic and
it's in a service,
it's much easier to test.
The reason being is because with
a component, that Angular 2 has actually
done some pretty good job or a pretty
good job streamline testing in Angular 2.
But it's really easy to test in ES6
class without any Angular dependencies.
And so that was one of the problems with
Angular1 is all I wanna test is directive,
how do I do that?
Well, I've actually got to simulate
DOM when I write my unit test.
You would actually write a quasi isimal
fragment, you basically speed it up,
initialize it and then you would
try to test it really, really hard.
But by extracting things out into
purely in a perative context i.e,
in the ES6 class.
It makes it much easier to test and
move around.
Makes sense?
Good.
>> Speaker 3: There's some confusion
about component in the chat.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah, so I think Hans
and David, they're absolutely right.
So one is the basic building block but
Angular is a component tree.
So you'll have your top root component and
then everything is essentially
built off of that.
So, looking at this code here,
we've talked about NgModule But
what mechanism is in play in
these three lines of code?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'll give you a hint,
organizational mechanism.
>> Speaker 6: Creating a new component?.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So yes.
I mean we are creating a component but
more so.
On the first two lines,
what are we doing?.
>> Speaker 6: Pulling in
resources that are required.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep, so
essentially, pulling in other modules.
And then, at the last line,
we're exporting our class.
And so
this is modules at a framework level, or
rather, a language level<< And
so you'll see this a lot.
And up until RC5 this is actually what
we used to construct our applications.
We'd import things and
wire it up into metadata.
Module has simplified that but
we still use ES6 modules
as a fundamental make it four or
an application so
just other one of the biggest
difference is from somebody from for
instance ES5 into ES6 slash type script is
wrapping their mind around really
importing and exporting functionality.
But this super nice because now Just like
we have dependency injection, in a sense,
you are supplying a dependency for your
code to use, so we know for a fact
that this item's component needs this
functionality, as well as the component,
so we simply provide it.
And we very specifically and
explicitly can state
its requirements at the top of
the file and just pull those in.
Whereas with ES5, well, how did that work?
Well, if you go to the index.html page,
and you look into the bottom of the page,
a lot of times you would have 20,
30, 40, 50 script files.
And I think even let's just
go back to the browser here.
This is one of the downsides
of using S5 is you have to
declare everything in kind of one place
and then its implied that it's available.
The problem is that if anybody ever gotten
these out of order like things will break.
With modules that is elevated and
so That alone simply is one.
Organize your application but then satisfy
dependencies is really, really powerful.
Let's just walk through
these real quick and
talk about what is the purposes
of These properties.
So bootstrap let's start with an easy one.
What does the bootstrap property do?
>> Speaker 7: App loads.
So gonna launch app component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So what your telling
it is we're going to when we bootstrap
we're saying we want to first
bootstrap to the module but
then when the module loads
the entry point is component.
And so
that becomes our top level component.
As a result of this if you go
to your index dot HTML you
will see the app component
selector in the HTML so
that it actually has Kind of an anchor or
entry point into the template.
Okay, providers?
>> Speaker 8: Services.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes, so
this is where we define our services for
our application.
And so by putting them into the providers
array, Angular now knows that they're
there, and they can supply them to as
you know for dependency injection.
Now Imports.
Yes so now we're importing
additional modules that we need So
for instance, the browser module,
so that essentially encapsulates
the browser functionality as
well as kind of Angular core.
But the Angular team has
broken out Angular 2, and
two kind of smaller modules, so
that you can define them as necessary.
So you might actually have an application
That doesn't use any hdp calls.
It may not be that kind of application,
so therefore you don't need to import it.
You don't need to incur the overhead or
it.
Or, you may have an application
that just doesn't have any form,
that's purely for display purposes.
Yes?
>> Speaker 4: Can you just repeat again
the [INAUDIBLE]
the declaration<< The providers,
these providers with the service, and
the declaration was with what again?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well, you just got to
my last and final question for this slide.
What are declarations for?
>> Speaker 9: Components.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Components.
And, essentially, anything that has a view
class or that will live in the dom.
So, aka, components.
So this is where your components go.
So components for declarations.
Imports, you import your dependencies.
Providers is for services.
And then bootstrap is for your component
that you want to bootstrap when that
module is loaded or bootstrapped.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yup, so we're getting
a lot of good answers in the chats.
>> Speaker 3: A question?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes?
>> Speaker 3: I notice that
the bootstrap is an array.
Which implies you can have
more than one entry point?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I believe that's so,
but I've never done it.
So that may be the case,
if somebody would like to try that out.
I think you can,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I wonder if you could.
So, we'll maybe try that over lunch.
>> Speaker 3: Try that over lunch.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: That's
a good question.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
Shouldn't be hard to give it a go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I think you possibly,
so at one point, you simply had a single
top level, but they may have changed
that with NG module, to where you could
actually have two components and
bootstrap them both in parallel.
Okay so what is the entry
point to our application here?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
we just went through the app module
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now what's happening
here
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: specifically at
the last line?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We were bootstrapping?
What are we bootstrapping?
The app module.
>> Speaker 10: The app module.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Which
then loads app component.
And one of the reasons why we
have platform browsers Dynamic
is because, web bootstrapping it
specifically for a browser context,
because you can actually run angular In
other, essentially rendering targets.
So you can actually, I know that electron
is a target that they're working on, but
you can actually run
Angular on the server side.
You can bootstrap Angular
to use web workers.
There's a lot of different ways to
spin up an Angular application.
And so this is why we have
this platformBrowserDynamic,
which then we use to call
bootstrapModule and bootstrapAppModule.
And so this is why we have
this war with Angular 1,
it was just ngAapp and
you're good to go like it's bootstrapped.
With Angular 2, we have a lot more
options about how we want to handle that.
So, what is the basic
structure of a route?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There's kind of
two main things I'm looking for.
If you have good eyesight,
you may be able to see on the slide,
but I expect commentary on this.
>> Speaker 5: It's an array of objects
that has a path and a component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Nailed it.
Path and a component.
So, what's another property we
could possible have on there?
>> Speaker 5: Children.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Children.
>> Speaker 8: Children.
>> Speaker 5: Redirect.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Redirect
too is another good one.
So once you understand path and
component, you'll use that a lot.
Redirect to for kind of your base path,
if you wanna redirect to a specific
route or what does asterisk do.
>> Speaker 6: Catchall.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Catchall.
So it's a wild card route,
wild card route.
Now as we learned yesterday
that if we hit a wild card,
it's just going to take ItemsComponent and
put it into the router outlet.
The problem is and
why there may be a good reason to do this,
the caveat is you are now in
a crazy potential URL that
you have now loaded a state or
a component that doesn't match the URL.
Remember, your URL,
think of it as essentially a serialized
version of the state of your application,
you're now in like crazy state and you're
actually showing something that is valid.
>> Speaker 3: Quick question, which
file did that bootstrap code come from?
Where you had said that one line
where you get that bootstrap?
What file did that come from?
>> Speaker 6: Main.ts.
>> Speaker 3: Main.ts.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Main.ts.
So let me just, I think I have it here.
If we go to, yeah, so main.ts and
it's right here in the root.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There we go.
So, we're bootstrapping in main.ts.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
notice it's pulling in app module and
that's all it needs to basically kick
things off and since we're here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Of course,
I think there's a ton of
index.html's in this project.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You notice
here that in our index.html,
we have essentially our selector for
our topple over component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And what you can
do is, cuz there's a question about we
had loading or something,
you can put something in here.
So this spinner will exist until,
essentially the module or
the component's loaded.
And so especially for the top level
component, it's very common to actually
put the, really a preloader
right in there in the middle.
So it can run and
then that component is loaded, and
it will then essentially replace that
item with the actual component view.
So if somebody was wondering
why that is there, it's for
UI purposes,
because those things are important.
I'm looking at you, CSS designer.
We love you.
>> Speaker 2: Do you know
the idea of putting in more or
less a simplified version of your page
while it's loading from an SEO standpoint?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes,
we know about that.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So the question is do
I know, but I'm gonna rephrase
that question slightly is,
is there a mechanism or a technique for
providing a simplified version
of the page for SEO purposes?
And there's a project called
Angular Universal which is officially
supported by Angular and what this does
is it allows you to actually render,
take your first pass of your Angular
application and it renders at the service.
So instead of essentially loading a blank
template and then filling it in as
the data comes in, it will actually fill
that template in at the server serve,
essentially the first
pass of the application.
And then once it loads, Angular will then
pick it up and kinda fill in the rest.
And so, it's a super awesome project.
My friend Jeff Whelpley started it and
the reason why he did it
was he works at Get Human.
He's the CTO and a lot of their,
essentially their revenue is based on
people finding them on the Internet.
So, that's a real SEO case.
Now I kind of bristle a little
bit when SEO comes up,
because I find that it's generally find
a straw man argument of like JavaScript.
Well, what about that SEO thing?
And I've found that when I really press
somebody for, what are you building?
What do you need SEO for?
And a lot of times, you find, well,
I'm building this single page
application where the user logs in.
Wait a second or you're building
really a complex application
with various levels of state and
you're like why would you
want to index that on,
why would you even want that indexed?
Or I mean, I've literally, well,
the user logs in and then well,
you certainly don't wanna
index user specific state.
And so there are definitely cases for
SEO, but I think throwing
SEO just out there is like well,
what about JavaScript and SEO and
it's like well there are ways to handle
that if you really have an SEO problem.
>> Speaker 2: More so
also or in addition to that,
I should say just from a response time.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes, so
that's actually a better example.
>> Speaker 2: That's really
kind of what I meant.
Yeah, the response time giving
them something immediately.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep.
>> Speaker 2: Since being
these apps get pretty large.
And on a mobile like you had
said yesterday, last calls.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep, I would
definitely check out Angular Universal and
there's some stuff around,
just progressive write applications
like web a lot of really
interesting things you can do to really
get that first render really fast.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So,
let's make a comment.
Let your public site handle the SEO and
keep it out of the app.
So a lot of times, again, using the right
tool for the right job is if you have just
a lot of content like that's really not
a good candidate for an application.
Use it, for instance, my blog is in
WordPress, because that's the best
tool for displaying a lot of content and
managing it like it's not Angular.
And so again,
using the right tool for the job and
it's totally fine to have just
a static single page, a static page.
Now for your public site, and then Angular
handles all of the application step so
really even segmenting that
out is a good example but
performance on the other hand,
that is important.
And I think Angular Universal
is a trick to that.
Well one of the tools.
Okay?
Where were we?
So we did the wild card route.
All right, so back to you.
What are the two main
pieces of a component?
Yeah I was pointing at you.
>> Speaker 7: The template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Speaker 7: Meta data and class.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So, template and
class, they are kind
of the two big pieces.
And then, I'm just jumping through here.
So, anyway, I'll talk about meta data in
a second, let's kind of back this up here,
let's talk about components,
one of the classes.
So what does implements OnInit do here?
>> Speaker 10: You're declaring your
component is gonna react to that event and
OnInit, you're gonna implement that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes,
for the most part.
Could you expand?
Specifically, when we say implements.
So OnInit is what?
>> Speaker 10: Is an event in Angular.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Kind of but in this
case right here, it is an interface.
So we're simply saying that this
class is going to implement
whatever is defined within this interface.
And so in this case if you go to
the OnInit interface then there is
an ngOnInit method that by
implementing the interface we
are now contractually
obligated to implement it.
So again there's nothing
forcing us to do it.
But TypeScript,
it essentially development time and
compile time will call you out
if you have failed to do so.
So, with that said how does ngOnInit work?
>> Speaker 3: Good comments
in the chat room right now.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yap so
Javier actually had it so
you use it to, well
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Not quite actually.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So Hans actually
had it, so it's really a life cycle
specifically it's when the bindings for
your component have been satisfied.
The reason why we use this is because.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: We need to
perform when we load our component,
when we have initialization logic we
need a place to put it especially
when that logic has a dependency on
data that's coming from a parent.
So the big takeaway here
is keep your instructor
light weight, you can use it for
basic assignment.
But a lot of times,
you will have it simply for
dependency injection to define it.
And then you will handle your
initialization in ngOnInit.
Because you can safely assume
that any kind of dependencies, or
data dependencies via binding,
has been satisfied at that point.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What do we do to
inject a dependency into our component?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
just rephrase this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes?
>> Speaker 3: Question,
so then I'm having a hard time
finding which file is this one from.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this is purely for discussion purposes.
But it is [INAUDIBLE]
So this not a specific file
but if you went to items component you
would see a similar version of this.
But our items component has
a dependency on the items service.
How do we get it in there?
>> Speaker 2: The constructor.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: << Yes.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So in our constructor,
what does the private keyword do?.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
Very good.
So it is constructor assignment.
But what it does now.
Assigns a variable or
property on that class that we can
then use outside of the constructor.
So therefore on ngOnInit,
we can then reference this .itemsService.
Yes.
>> Speaker 11: If you have private,
can you also have public?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yeah.
>> Speaker 11: And then does that make
it a member variable of the class and
available to whoever uses that component?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So technically,
when things are compiled, so
typescript is a super set of VS 6.
ES 6 is a superset of VS 5.
So at the end of the day,
everything is being compiled into ES 5.
So it's important to point out,
that public and private and
the different assets modifiers
are strictly at really
a kind of development time and
compile time in the form of warnings.
But once it's into ES 5 there's nothing
to actually keep it from doing that.
So, once it's been compiled to DS-5,
there's no concept of public and private.
But what you could do is,
if you needed to access this,
or what you wanted to control this, so
by default I set things to private.
And therefore if I tried to access the
item's service outside of this component,
for some reason,
TypeScript would be like, hey.
This thing's private.
You can't touch it.
But you could do, you know, public.
So, for instance, you had,
a better use case.
You had a service that references, maybe,
another service that you
want to make available.
To something else.
You can set that to the public.
Yes.
>> Speaker 3: I had a question from way
early this morning before we began.
And it's like 45 minutes ago.
[LAUGH] But it's appropriate to right now.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Good.
>> Speaker 3: I think.
Let's see.
Are all functions that I
declare in the service public?
Can I declare some function that
takes object, modify it, and
return in a service that's not
accessable to anything outside of it?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
by default everything is public.
But then you can basically set
it to private if you would like.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's see here.
Make sure.
Yeah, so
ngOnInit runs after the constructor.
The constructor will run
pretty much right away.
But then certain things need to happen,
bindings need to be satisfied,
tablet needs to be initialized,
and then ngOnInit will run.
So that's really important that
ngOnInit runs after the constructor.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Okay,
back to you my friend.
How do we connect our template and
component class?
>> Speaker 7: Metadata.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Metadata, all right.
I'm just throwing you these, we're
playing slow pitch softball right here.
Hit it over the fence, it's easy.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
what are two things a component must have?
>> Speaker 2: Elevator and template URL.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes, kind of.
So selector and a template.
So you could, as you do template inline,
but it has to have a selector and
a template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
because of that then,
we essentially have our three main pieces.
Template, it always comes with a class,
and
then the metadata then provides a way for
us to get it into our Angular application.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
I'm coming right back to you.
What's another way to define
a component template?
We have template URL,
what's another way to do this?
>> Speaker 2: Inline?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Inline, yes.
>> Speaker 2: Please don't do that.
[LAUGH]
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
that actually leads to the question of why
might we use one instead of the other?
Cuz I think there's use cases for both.
>> Speaker 2: Size, simplicity.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes,
keeping things small, very specific.
So if you're every writing a class, or
a constructor, or really a template, and
you start to realize my goodness,
I'm on line 400.
You probably should stop and realize hey,
this is the canary in the coal mine,
and it just toppled over dead.
That is generally an indication
that something has went wrong and
you have not achieved the appropriate
level of abstraction for your application.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And it's just,
on the surface it's really like,
that totally makes sense.
I've just seen it so
many times where somebody's like hey,
will you look at my code, and
can you help me fix this problem?
And you look in their constructor or
their component class, and
it's 1,200 lines of code.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so
hopefully, in that situation,
I can figure out what they're doing,
as in, this line here is wrong.
But, did you know, you have
an architectural problem that's way worse.
And so this is one of the things,
I've mentioned clean code.
But this is one of the things that
Robert Martin really hits on,
is,you want to keep things small,
fine-grained, and very specific.
So this is single-responsibility
principle.
Because when you mix
responsibilities together, and
you need to then repeat some
piece of that responsibility
somewhere else,
you have no way to reuse it.
Then you have to figure out how to
actually abstract that responsibility or
that code out,
that functionality into something else.
Not only that, is when you have code
that's doing more then one thing,
well how do you test it?
If you have a function doing three things,
the only way to test that is,
you have to test all three things.
And you have to test
the possible permutations
that those three things will do.
And so I'll talk about this
more in Reactive Angular.
But really one, you wanna minimize state,
or for complexity,
you need to minimize state.
But in doing so, you need to think about
how to actually minimize the control flow
through your application.
And when you have a function that
internally is doing three things,
that's one, how do you test
the middle thing in isolation?
You can't, because now it's
couples with everything else.
And so even just expanding on this a bit,
I think it's really important,
and you would see this
a lot more in Angular 1,
but keeping imperative logic
out of your templates.
And so I would see things like ngIf a and
b or c or
d equals 123, find out what
you mean to me, or something.
You just see this logic statement, and
it's like, well how do you test that?
How do you possibly
test that bit of logic?
Well you can't,
because it's coupled into the component.
And so what you really want at
the end of the day is small
pieces of code that really do one thing,
with a clear input and output.
So that your method has a component
contract, that when I call this method,
and I put this in, I'm going to
get this out, every single time.
And so this is a high-level
architectural discussion, but
this is why one, I think using
inline templates is a good kind of
a canary in a coal mine for,
are my components specific enough?
Now to flip to the other side,
where would this maybe not be appropriate?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So one,
I'll just throw this out here,
is we have somebody,
a designer, a UI designer,
who their primary function is to
build out pixel-perfect HTML in CSS.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: There are a lot of
moving parts when it comes to Angular 2
specifically.
And it may not be appropriate or
compassionate to subject them
to an Angular 2 workflow.
I just know designers that,
they're great on a tablet drawing or
doing mock ups, and Photoshop is
their jam or really now Sketch.
And then you're like okay what I need
you to do is go install npm and Node.
And then we're gonna do this, and
then we're gonna run the Angular CLI,
and then you need to download WebStorm,
and
then we need to configure your TypeScript
compiler, and you're gonna lose them.
And so I think by using these external
assets, if your workflow is of such,
you can decouple that development
piece from the main workflow.
So that somebody can go,
they can do the templates,
they can deliver them to you,
and you can leave them external.
Or even if you so want, you can then chop
them up yourself, and make them inline.
But that,
your workflow may not support it.
And I think with Angular 1, there was
a really good designer story for that.
Where you could know just enough HTML to
really kind of do some interesting things.
Angular 2 is getting there,
but I think inline templates,
I think that makes it a bit harder.
>> Speaker 2: One quick question.
I understand the style URLs,
where you can have different style sheets.
Can you give a real-world case of
why you'd do multiple right here?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
maybe like a base style sheet?
And then a component-specific style sheet.
>> Speaker 2: Wouldn't the base
be pulled in a lot earlier?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Maybe, I mean,
so you may wanna pull it in at the,
let's say you have a smart component,
or a container component.
You have specific for that feature.
But then for this particular thing,
you wanna pull it in very specific.
So it just allows you essentially nth
degree of granularity and control.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
let's talk about binding.
What is the easiest way to
bind to a simple text value?
If anybody's done Angular 1,
I expect that they will have this answer.
What's that?
>> Speaker 11: Interpolation.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Interpolation, yes.
String interpolation.
So what's the best binding for
sending data to the template?
So they have a property in our class and
we wanna make it available
to our template.
By the way, Rush, you're exactly right,
it's interpolation.
So class to template, which one is that?
What's that?
>> Speaker 12: Property binding.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Property binding,
sweet, all right, and
from the template back to the class?
>> Speaker 12: Event binding
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Event binding.
Man, like one of the most fundamental
things, you guys are nailing it.
All right, so how do we keep
things in sync between both?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] in a box.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I
heard a banana in a box.
[LAUGH] Yes, it is a,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Banana in a box,
or to a data binding.
So the question is,
what is actually happening here?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So again,
What do the brackets mean?
>> Speaker 12: Property value.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Parentheses?
>> Speaker 12: [INAUDIBLE] data binding.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
if one sends from template to class and
class to template, and
we combine them together, as I've said.
Two one way streets side by side
is really just a two way street.
And so this is what we're doing.
So to that end, on ngModel,
if you took out the parenthesis,
it would just be one way.
You would set the property but there'd be
no way to set it back to the thing and
so that's what actually
using the parentheses does.
>> Speaker 13: So
is that really a convenience method?
You can do the same thing by having
separate property and event bindings?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: You can.
So for instance, you could do input and
capture that within that.
Say value, whatever you want it to be.
Like my value equals event.value.
And so you can very much separate
those out and have them side by side.
So it's just a convenience method.
With ngModel, basically picking
up on text input, I believe.
So as you type, it's actually
internally capturing that event and
then surfacing it.
And we'll revisit this concept
in component driven architecture when we
start talking about inputs and outputs.
Because I suspect I haven't done it.
So you can actually do
custom two way data binding.
To where we could pick any property,
or any attribute, and make it two way.
There's a way to do that, and in doing so,
I'm pretty certain that I could
actually write ngModel from scratch, if I
wanted, so just something to think about.
Okay,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I'm bringing this
diagram up because we're going to
revisit this heavily in the next module.
So on your left hand side,
so stage left, or I don't even
know how that works, never mind.
So template to class,
what binding goes there?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
from class to template?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Property, yes.
Very good, okay.
So what is this?
>> Speaker 13: Interpolation.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Interpolation.
What do we have here?
>> Speaker 13: Property binding.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Property binding,
yeah a lot.
Don't they have a class?
What do we have here?
This side of the room, you're banned for
the next two questions.
Over here.
>> Speaker 14: Event binding.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Event binding.
So you're super quiet but I wager you
are way ahead of us right now so.
Event binding.
Yes, he sure can hear it.
All right,
I'm no longer fooled by that ruse.
And what do we have here?
>> Speaker 15: Two way.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Two way binding, yes.
>> Speaker 3: Martin is asking in the chat
room, could you give an example of when
you would use a property squares
instead of a value, curly braces?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So the question is,
when would you use a property
binding versus interpolation?
>> Speaker 3: He just came back and
said you didn't explain it, so sorry.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yep, so it's worth
mentioning because they do talk about this
specifically in the Angular docs is that,
there are times when you can
use them both but generally for
kind of simple string values,
like I have an H1 tag and I wanna put
something in, I'll just do interpolation.
But anything that really can
update over time or is dynamic or
is going to be a property on the element
itself, then I use property binding.
Alright, so
how do components in directive differ?
This is for all my one.x homies that are
coming to Angular 2 for the first time,
that always comes up like, what's
the difference between a component and
a directive?
>> Speaker 2: Doesn't have a template.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes,
I mean, that is at the core.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Directives
do not have templates.
They are only there to
modify existing elements.
Yep, Russ, you got it.
No templates in directives.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
this is an interesting question.
How is a service like a component?
>> Speaker 2: It's a class
wrap with metadata.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Boom, nailed it.
It's like that song, C is for cookie?
The C is for class and
that's good enough for me, okay?
There's a few more things in here.
So at a high level,
that's absolutely right.
Like the shape is almost identical.
What about the constructor?
Dependency injection is just the same,
it's exactly the same?
Methods and properties, exactly the same?
I would say really the main difference
between a component, wait a second.
How are the different?
I'm not going to answer
my own question now.
There's one kind of specific thing I
think that really sets them apart.
But other than that,
other than the metadata,
I think they're almost indistinguishable.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: What do components
have happening under the hood that we
can hook into?
>> Speaker 2: Events?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Events,
lifecycle hooks, that's the difference.
The reason why we have those is because
when a component is added to the DOM, or
taken from the DOM and
is being initialized there's kind of
this sequence of events that needs
to happen that we can then tap into.
Whereas a service,
because it never lives in the DOM,
the only really event that we need
to know about is the constructor.
Has the service been instantiated?
But after that,
its methods and properties.
And even to that point,
component lifecycle hooks are really just
methods that implicitly
get called by Angular.
And it's that simple.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So apparently I just
accidentally answered a question in, or
rather yeah, I actually did
answer a question in the chat.
So that's the difference really, it's
because services do not live in the DOM,
they don't really have that component
lifecycle that components have.